Interview with Sterling Morrison, November 8th,
1984. Carl Pohlmeier interviewing. Okay.
Should do it. Okay. When did you become a musician?
When did you start playing the guitar? I started
playing guitar in eighth grade. My original
instrument was trumpet, and my teacher got
drafted, and I couldn't find a good one. So I did
nothing for a year. And then picked up a ukulele.
Everybody sees them. And learned three ukulele
chords and figured, oh, well, why not try and learn
some guitar chords? Actually, my liking for rock
and roll music led me to, it was just kind of a happy
accident. My teacher was gone, and therefore I was
free to take another instrument. Rock and roll
would have led me to guitar playing. I regret that I
wasn't
a keyboard player for my whole life. That's the
best thing to me, like John Cale. Cale started on
keyboards at three and viola at five and did his
first BBC concert when he was eight and was a child
prodigy. Naturally, he did all those things for
us, although we were considered a band with no
talent whatsoever. We're the most scholarship,
fellowship band in the history of music,
which is an oblique way of saying we're the
brightest. Not the best, but the brightest. If
being smarter than other bands could get you any
place, then Velvet Underground would have gotten
there.
We rarely use intelligence in songwriting or in
our playing, I think. We're not intellectually
pretentious. Only one track, I think. The murder
mystery, people might think,
has some weirdness to it. We were trying for a
Joyce-ian rock and roll song. And if you can
decipher it, it's all in code, really. It's about
the history of the band. Isn't it neat being
unique? You can hear some isolated little
couplets in there. But it's a real negative,
satirical, and oblique encoded. It is Joycean.
It's very hard to figure out just what the hell is
being talked about. But it's about the life and
times of the Velvet Underground. Same as Sister A
is. What were some early influences on guitar
style? Well, for Lou and me, and
Maureen also. See, Kel was born and raised in
Wales, and then went to the Royal Academy and all
that sort of thing. So he didn't know anything
about American rock and roll music, which is
terrific. That guarantees you an absolute fresh
viewpoint. John could never fall into...
conventional riff playing. He couldn't take a
lazy way out because he didn't know them. He didn't
know cliches, riffs, songs. He didn't know any of
this stuff. Lou and I had the... Everybody says
every guitar player now has encyclopedic
knowledge of all this old crap. Every guitar
player has encyclopedic knowledge. That's how
you learn. This stuff is not written down. You have
to learn it from records. But it was straight R&B.
for Lou and me. That's how Lou and I met. I was
playing Lightman Hopkins records, and he was in
the room above. Finally, he came lurching down,
because he had a campus radio show at Syracuse,
from which he got kicked off the air. This stuff is
not mainstream music. He said, hey. I didn't even
know that he was a guitar player. I didn't learn
that for about a week. When Lou tried to disrupt an
ROTC drill, they used to drill back of the dorm.
First I heard this very loud bagpipe music
blasting. He had a good high-five set. All us
suburban kids had good high-fives. So he was
blasting the hell out of them with this bagpipe
music. And then that stopped. And then all of a
sudden I hear all this kind of humming and
clicking. And then he started blasting with his
guitar. And I said, yike. Guitar player upstairs.
Must be that guy who won the Leidenhoff
Conservatory. And he was a creative writing major
and wrote poetry and blah, blah, blah. But
identical things.
That was where the real music was.
I think things are bad now. You should have seen the
early 60s. God, it was horrible. Jay and the
American.
There's one thing you don't have to suffer with now
that we did. It's the battle between rock and roll
and folk.
A horrible, bitter thing. You know, you remember
that scene, well, pretty obvious, in Animal
House, where The guy is, I gave you my love, and all
this stuff. Then Belushi comes by, looks at him in
horror, and grabs his guitar and smashes it.
Belushi, a wonderful thing. That's my favorite
scene in the movie. I would have bashed the guitars
over the head of every folk singer in America if I
could have laid my hands on them. And then,
horribly, and I should have anticipated it
predictably, when the folk audience, the folk
creep, pretentious audience, started to
evaporate, then they just cross over. Bob Dylan I
loathe in a way that I can't express despising. So
then all of a sudden they had folk rock. Here are
these same creeps now calling themselves rock and
rollers. I just read a thing with Paul Simon
someplace. I guess it was Playboy magazine. Paul
Simon considers himself a rocker. And he's
complaining. He said, you know, I think I've
gotten a bad rap. And people keep relating to me as a
folk singer. But I'm really a rocker.
If Paul Simon is a rocker, then so is Pat Boone. Pat
Boone was a hell of a lot more rocked out than Paul
Simon. At least Pat Boone sang Little Richard
songs. Both are hard rockers compared to Boy
George. If that's hard rock, then... Well, hard
rock isn't the only rock, but you know what I mean.
By his own admission, he's essentially a
balladeer. I mean, that's his strength. But you
don't have to suffer with that now.
like rock for whatever it is, there are other
problems now. What is the real rock and roll as
opposed to what is the pop schmaltz? There was
always pop schmaltz. But among the people who
really cared about what ought to be the true
direction, in the 60s it was fragmented, and no
music historian ought to forget that. Some of the
people thought that it really ought to be folk.
That lyrics really ought to be meaningful and
socially relevant. They're important things
that can only be communicated this way. The true
rocker said, stick all that. None of this counts.
Only grunting and shouting and howling. Just
general antics. And I always thought that's what
we were. See, that was obviously a conflict that
Lou and I had. I was contended he was soft on folk.
because he wanted to stress lyrics. I would make
some contributions to lyrics now and again, but I
constantly
devalued their importance.
Not that you should have long instrumentals.
That's not a very good
idea. I've been talking about the virtues of Louie
Louie since it came out. I considered it the last
true American rock and roll record. right after
Louie Louie came to Beatles. Everybody started
trying to sing harmonies and everybody tried to do
this and that. Just go back and listen to Louie
Louie, what it is. Three power chords, a garbled,
possibly obscene lyric, hot Fender lead. It was
everything. Condemned by parents and religious
groups. That's American rock and roll. It's not
a... That's why I always have There's always a soft
place in my heart for the most outrageous heavy
metal bands, except when they copy each other.
In their despicableness, they're closer to the
real ideal. Barry Manilow considers himself in
rock and roll. That's rock and roll. A rock concert
is Barry Manilow.
I would like him to go to a party with Motley Crue or
something. and do everything that they do, and
then see if he's still alive. The true test of rock
and roll errs, I guess, is you have to have a little
physical oomph to you, at least initially. That's
why I think people ought to retire when they reach
about 21. The riggers of the road aren't playing
gigs night after night. It's partying night after
night. You get done playing at 2 o'clock in the
morning and carry on until 8, then do a TV show at 10
a.m., and then hit the plane to the next town.
That's what wears you down. It's not not playing.
That's what keeps you alive, I think. At least for
those moments, you can't be doing anything really
destructive to your body. You can only do that when
you get off. When people are waiting in the wings to
help destroy you. A glorious way to go. I always
liked it. I liked touring. That's another thing
that... Lou was never wild about live
performance. And still isn't. I always liked it.
Making records is like doing the laundry. Most
studios look like laundromats. Nowadays, I think
they're a little more... you know, simpatico.
Maybe, though. Not so much. Some had even neon
lighting. Stuff like that. Strange. But anyway,
to go back to influences, I would say it was black
music. I listened to old Alan Freed. The
contribution of Alan Freed isn't to be
exaggerated. Unfortunately, it was only
confined to people in New York. You had to be there
to compare what Alan Freed played with what was
standard fare on the radio. He played black music.
I mean, way out stuff, southern black music,
really strange things. Did he take payola?
Certainly. However, there was a kind of little
asterisk. You couldn't pay him to play something
he didn't like. You couldn't pay him enough. If he
thought this is no good and it was going to
embarrass him, and he had real standards about
what was good, then he wouldn't do it. But yeah,
sure. Here's a black DJ looking to make some money.
All the black artists are trying to make money. All
they ever wanted to do was be played on the white
stations where the big money was and get big and
famous. And they finally did, you know, through
Motown, largely. But they've been trying for
years and years and years.
They were, I guess, kind of compelled to want to try
to sell out. We were never compelled to, so we never
did.
If only the last nice thing that anybody can ever
say about the Velvet Underground is that we didn't
sell out, that's true. We did not. Even if I'd known
what it would take to be a top 10 or a top 40 act, I
wouldn't have done it. I was incapable of wearing a
suit that matched everything everybody else
wore, or choreographing dance steps, doing a
little bit of light comedy on TV variety shows. I
had no interest in that stuff. I don't want to
exchange jibes with Don Rickles. Actually, I
would like to. I suspect I would win as one of the
unfunniest men. But you know, the things that rock
and roll groups were subjected to, I imagine
you've seen the old kinescopes of those variety
shows. USA Network has their kind of rock history
thing. And they show old variety show kinescopes.
You're on as, OK, now for the kiddies, Ed Sullivan
used to say, now for the kiddies. And it would be the
Rolling Stones or somebody, the Yardbirds. It
would be somebody good for the kiddies, indeed.
The best group in the history of Ed Sullivan was the
Rascals. Felix Cavalieri being an old friend of
ours at Syracuse. They went in for the warm-up and
had the amps weighed down. They turned everything
down. They did all their sound checks and all. And
then they went back to play the show, and they
played for a live audience. They looked at the size
of the hall. And they knew exactly what level they
ought to be at for the rock and roll experience. So
they just turned all the stuff up and they played.
When I was sitting home, I didn't know any of this,
naturally. I just wanted to see how Felix was going
to do on the tube. And he did Good Lovin'. I can't
recall if they did Ain't Gonna Eat Out My Heart
Anymore or not. Great song. But anyway, it sounded
great. And I said, boy, listen to that. You know how
live music used to sound in Ed Sullivan? It sounded
horrible. This stuff, boy, it had bottom and
punch. I said, wow, how come they sound so good and
everybody else sounds horrible? And then when
they were done, Ed Sullivan looked like he'd been
struck by lightning. And there's a big stink in the
papers the next day. They'll never be on the show
again and all this stuff. And they damaged the ears
of the studio audience. Oh, they sounded great.
They just played it like a real live rock gig. And it
sounded great. So that's my vote for the best Ed
Sullivan performance by a rock group. The Four
Tops did great one time, too. And Reach Out, I'll Be
There, has that real strong instrumental
introduction. You couldn't even hear it. So they
essentially sang a cappella the whole way. Great,
great stuff. It was beautiful. What nerve, what
poise. But to be a rock and roll group in the 60s was
to be a strange creature. The serious and
respectable people were folk singers. And God
help us, the folk rockers. And then there were the
have to sell on the charts. And then we had Love and
Peace and Flower Power, so this would all be
somehow hippie-related. We had nothing
whatsoever to do with the hippies. Our idols were
the beatniks, mine personally and Lou's
personally. Then I got to hang around with them.
That was even more amazing. These are the guys I
liked. They were the ones who read books, wrote
books, wrote poetry, played music, screwed
women, took drugs. That seemed like a good
lifestyle, intellectual dissipation.
The hippies were know-nothings and do-nothings.
So I never did like them. I thought they were
harmless and kind of nice, but I wouldn't want to go
live with them. So I would say we always hung around
with beatnik types and new beatniks. They were our
intellectual inspiration. Lifestyle. Go read On
the Road again. It's a good book. Unfortunately,
the best music they had at the time was jazz. But all
the old impulses are there. On the Road's
wonderful. Tommy taught it here once.
Since everybody now is for Reagan, I don't know if
On the Road will wash. I forget these people don't
want to do anything except get a job at the bank.
If you didn't want to get a job at the bank at the age
of 21, then on the road was your kind of thing.
I worked a sperry round when I was 19. I quit because
I had a sure future. I had free education for any
place it would take me. I was an old engineering
physics major. They would send me any place and pay
all the money. And I had guaranteed summer jobs and
guaranteed employment forever and ever and merit
raises and all. And it scared me to death. I said,
wait, wait. Help. There has to be more things to do
than this. So I took technically leave of absence,
which I'm still on.
I'm horrified by the way people are
career-oriented.
And really deadly kind of careers, too. hospital
supply inventory specialist for which somebody
will give you a PhD. If you consider the courses
offered at a university, not necessarily A&M here
or anyplace, most have no place at all in the
traditional conception of a university. All
engineering would be gone. That's trade school.
All business would be gone. That's trade school.
That accounts for probably 60% of the enrollment
at UT. I mean out, gone, has no place here. And you
speak to old engineering professors and they'll
tell you they ought not to be here. The engineering
school ought to be someplace over there. It's not a
science even. And anyone pretending that
engineers are scientifically motivated, that
person would be encouraged to get out of
engineering and go into the pure science. It's
strictly applications.
It doesn't make it contemptible, but people ought
to realize what it is. I was teaching tech writing
in the chemical engineering department for three
and a half years. I happen to like engineers,
having been among them for a good while. I like
getting things done.
That's one side. And the other side likes loafing
and doing weird things.
What was one of your, or the biggest reasons for
joining the Velvet Underground, or starting the
Velvet Underground? Yeah, we started it because
we had no future in music. We started it from a
position of retirement. And
how can anybody say despair, considering how
young we were? First of all, who wants a career in
music? I didn't. Lou didn't. We had other things to
do. But always, while we were doing the other
things, we were playing music. Finally, we
decided in 1963, this is the end. We can't play
gigs. These people don't want to hear the songs
that we would care to play, which are old R&D
things. This was before the Rolling Stones. So the
Rolling Stones started rehashing all these white
R&D songs. We just said, well, of course. They'd
always ask them, who do you like? They'd say, oh, Bo
Diddley and Chuck Berry and Little Walter and all
those things. I said, well, yeah, who else is
there? But we'd play parties in Syracuse. People
would get incensed. They wanted to hear Frankie
Valli. They said, no, but how about It's Gonna Work
Out Fine?
We were in strange bands. We were one called 12
Screaming Niggers.
Lou and I were the two white boys. Later it became
Moses and his brothers. Moses Williams is one of
them and all his brothers and a bunch of their
friends. It was kind of hard to get the old campus
gig with that sort of thing. But it expands one's
horizons, shall we say.
I grew up on Long Island. I'm incapable of
per se because of my many years among blacks.
But I discriminate among them as viciously as they
do. Not viciously, but that was another thing that
I didn't like the racial attitudes of the 60s. Oh, I
just love my black brother. Don't say that. You
don't know. You're a black brother. I know a hell of
a lot more of them than you do. And I tell you, these
are the ones I like, and these are the ones I got no
use for. This is a worthless son of a bitch, and this
one here is et cetera.
I was never shamed into liking blacks because I was
supposed to. I liked them because I did. If I did, I
had real reason for it. They didn't like whites and
never upset me either. They had reasons for it. I
disliked usually the same whites they did. Yeah,
so it didn't make any difference. But I thought
that, I don't know what to be said about the 60s. A
time of great phoniness,
but also sort of experimentation. Some things
worked, oddly. The sexual revolution worked.
Newsweek telling me that that is over hasn't
convinced me. I don't know. When it's over on the
college campuses, then I'll know it's over. Is it
over around here? Is it over at A&M?
It's up to the person.
That would be sad. That would be sad. Because it
really is kind of a freedom of lifestyle now. That
has lasted. If the youth of today is so
conservative that they don't even screw, well,
what can you say?
Might take a little energy out of the accounting
final or something. But that would be pitiful.
That, I thought, at least this will endure of all
the 60s shenanigans. Maybe not. Bill Burroughs is
one of my favorites.
In despair, I speak to him, and he tells me funny
things about seeing this.
There's going to be a great howl when Burroughs
dies.
Irreplaceable. count
the demise of Dali, which looks imminent.
Great tragedy also.
You mentioned civil rights things in the 60s and
the sexual revolution. Did you emphasize that in
your music of Belitz? No, not overtly. I think
there's an
obvious laissez-faire attitude to all this.
Since, you know, the little eddies of
transvestitism,
S&M, and all that sort of thing, drifting through
the songs,
it should be understood that we would tolerate
anything. I contended that we just had all
different kind of love songs. Just kind of with
some kind of love as well. No kinds of love are
better than others. Does that mean I'm bisexual?
No, because I'm not. I'm straight. Was I ever under
pressure to be? No.
Was I surrounded by homosexuals and weirdos? Yes.
So what?
Is show business and the art scene infested with
homosexuals and weirdos? Yes.
So what?
What would happen if you went to their parties?
Nothing. Have a good time, probably. The
straights will find each other. Others will find
others. I don't know. I think it was good
education.
Show business people are always weird.
I was reading a thing where Lorne Michaels was
grumbling about the Belushi book, you know,
Wired, that Woodruff wrote. Woodruff doesn't
know anything about show business. And he
isolates Belushi's behavior, thinking that this
is a horrible degenerate. And ought to be held up as
some kind of negative example. He's not a horrible
degenerate or a negative example. In many ways,
he's just typical. Oh, he may have been a little
more enthusiastic about drugs than certain other
people. All Lorne Michaels said is, look, show
business is a life. It entails different hours and
different places to go and different people. If
you get up at 6 o'clock at night like Dracula and go
to bed at sunrise, which indeed you will do, you
have to. Your playing schedule is going to be that
way. On the road it's going to be that way. So what
are you going to do, switch to a 9 to 5 lifestyle when
you get back home? You're up all night and you're
doing things that the 9 to 5ers don't do. And maybe
you can't even imagine. My favorite night was
always Sunday night.
Always had kind of a lassitude to it. People were
totally burnt out from weekend shenanigans. And
it still had enough left in them for at least one
Sunday night go around. And whoever you saw, this
was a person who didn't care about Monday morning.
Things would get real lively about 4 or 5 AM.
But that was Lorne Michaels' point, which I
responded to immediately. To Woodward,
Belushi's antics were horrifying and
contemptible.
He's a journalist. A journalist who'd go to work
every morning, I guess come home every night. I
don't know. Had no sympathy whatsoever for show
business. Not that I do, necessarily. I'm not in it
now. I don't think it makes too many demands.
After a while you cross the threshold and you can't
come back. That's what I was saying when I left. I
said, if I stick with this much longer, then that's
all I'm going to be. It
puts you at a permanent remove from everybody
else. I didn't think that's necessarily a good
idea.
Did you see Broadway Danny Rose? The Woody Allen
thing? He'll have all these comedians at the
beginning, comics, sitting around in a
delicatessen, a stage deli in New York, talking
about Broadway Danny Rose. And then you look at his
clients. That's what show business is. Jugglers
and dog acts. I was always horrified at show
business. It always frightened me. that people
would devote their lives to this sort of thing. Do I
like music? Oh, yes, indeed. Love music. But hate
show business. Velvet Underground was never a
show business band. Just a music band.
And... Ran around with all these theater people
and
whatnot. Not that we were better. I don't think I
had enough... I don't think I had a thick enough
skin. It really rankled me when people said
something negative. But to be a hoofer, people on
stage, this takes some kind of guts. Your ego has to
be so far away and so protected that you can allow
yourself to do anything. And they do. You know,
what lies inside Joan Rivers? God? God, no.
Wherever it is, it's well protected. The little
essence is impervious to anything. So I didn't
think that was such a good idea, to only come out at
night for life, to hang around with these strange
types. My favorite old TV show were the old
Berettas. That kind of reminded me of show
business. The sleaze element of it. Burlesque is
show business. It has all sorts of little
stepchildren.
Those old Berettas where everybody in the movie
was some pimp or hooker or something. Remember the
ones that they were always trying to get kicked
off? You ever seen the early, early ones? Oh,
they're sleazy. And he's living with his old
degenerate Billy.
So that was sort of close to my conception of it.
peripheral show business life. So why did you
decide to teach English? I was always an English
major, creative writing. Well, after I, writing
and music got me out of engineering, not bad
grades. I still like, I was a ham radio operator for
the longest time here.
People thought that was astounding. I said, yeah,
I like it. Not a CB-er. Old bonafide ham.
I'm not a computer hacker. I bought an Apple
Macintosh.
Because we get such a good price on it here. Yeah, my
roommate has some friends here who got him a
Macintosh. Yeah. How do you like it? Yeah, I've
been playing with it a lot, too. It's fun stuff.
Once you... Once you get the hang of it, it does
pretty well. It's fast and efficient. I don't know
about... I'm just using it for a word processor.
Everybody says that's like using a hammer to kill
flies. I don't have any numbers to crunch. What am I
supposed to do? Figure out the location of the
Earth's satellites two million years down the
line? I don't know. There are no numbers that I need
to run, so I'm just pushing words.
Back on the music side of it, did your bringing up
electronics and electrical engineering, did
that have any influence on the band or the new
technology coming out of the time? New technology
is what really did it. We built a few gizmos on our
own. And we're not afraid to make modifications on
the guitars. But I think one of the advantages to
when Velvet Underground got cranked up. Rock
music prior to then was dominated almost
completely by Fendu and Ampeg in the studios, the
old Gemini 2s. Every studio in the world had a
Gemini 2. They played so many songs through Gemini
2s.
That's all rock and roll was, and it wasn't going
anyplace in particular. They invented fuzz tone,
I think, around 1961. But everybody had ways of
doing that by themselves. As I said in the
biography, my amp already did it. So I didn't need
to go hear the demonstration. The first time I ever
heard it on a record was Zibbity Doo Dah, Bobby Sox
in the Blue Jeans. And I didn't care for the sound of
it. My amp, with a smooth distort, fiddling around
with the preamp,
that sounded better. I was using preamp. type
things. But then, very early on, Vox had some
breadboard whiz and somehow had enough influence
that whatever he drew up, they would incorporate
into the amps. And those old Super Beatles were
just way, way ahead of everybody else. Their
distorters sounded better and their mid-range
boost was better. Just great sounds came out. It
made bad speakers, so you had to put JBLs in there.
But, yeah, we had to build our own stuff, because we
were on endorsement to Vox, and the latest
electronic junk invented would fall into our
hands. And we would then seek uses for it. But Cal
was always busy designing this and that. He tried a
scheme to make a bass amp out of phase linear amps
and some kind of cabinets. And it was impossible
damn thing to transport.
So John, look, just take an Acoustic 360. We ran an
endorsement to Acoustic. He said, that's a good
bass amp. We can carry it. It'll work. All this pile
of junk here, I don't know who the hell is going to
wire it up. I don't know who's going to fix it when it
dies, which will probably be two days out. So that
was that. But yeah, we didn't really depend so much
on on our own little devices, although we did use
them. We just tried to keep abreast of who was doing
what.
And also, we had long talks with them at Fox with
their main guy. He then went on and did Marshall.
He's the same character.
Left Fox, and he opted for just a pure power amp. But
you know the problems with the old Marshalls. They
were so hot. You know, they fried themselves. They
were designed to. The preamp was just a killer. So
if you wanted to go on the road with Marshalls, we
never endorsed Marshall and never used them.
Well, I had used them. Whenever we played with the
MC5, we'd always blow up Wayne Kramer's Marshalls
for him. If you wanted to go on the road, for every
one you had on stage, you had to have two others. One
was backing you up in the wings, and the other was
off in the shop being fixed. I'm not kidding. So you
needed three times as much stuff. So at the time of
the Marshall heyday, we were using sun amps
because they were dependable. Indeed, they are
dependable.
How about guitars? You've mentioned Fenders.
Yeah, the Strat or the Telecaster was used a lot
back then. Did Joe use Fender or Gibson or what else
do I... Well, Lou,
Lou's original guitar, I can't say it's his
original. It's the first one I ever saw him with,
and I dare say it is his original. It was an old Coco
Brown Gretsch.
That's the Ostrich guitar.
And why did Lou choose a Gretsch? Well, that was
what all the black guitar players used, and Bo
Diddley and all. So he had this old,
horrible-looking Gretsch. And we pulled the
frets off it, so it became a fretless guitar. That
was an ostrich guitar, modal tuned. And I had all
these old Junkers. And an SG. I bought one of the
first SGs that came out, because it had great
drive, back in 61. I'm still very, very fond of SGs.
That guitar was stolen, but it upset me. I'm going
to have all these old fenders. I had an old pink
Paisley Telecaster 55. It looked like vomit. This
is the ugliest guitar. If I had that now, I could
sell it for $5,000. Nobody would believe anything
this ugly could be manufactured by the factory. It
had a perfect Telecaster sound. Perfect. That's
gone. But I have two old Strats and a couple Fender
12s and a 335 stereo. A good, workable
guitar. Anybody? Are there you guys guitar
players? We both are. Yeah. What do you play? I've
got a Fender Mustang. A real primitive. Yeah. 64. I
could have a Duosonic. And a duosonic and a Fender
Reverb amp for $200.
And I never got over there to pick it up. This was
since I was in Texas. So you throw the duosonic
away. Patti Smith used to play a duosonic. To no
particular effect. You've got a Fender Reverb
amp. Yeah. What kind of guitar? Well, I just got a
347. Oh. It was a... The bank repossessed it, so I
got it with the ode. How much is that? Six. How much?
Six hundred. That's nice. That is a baritone
and... Yeah, it was just a couple months old. Is
that a stereo? No. No. You know, the really... The
only thing about it is that... Does it have a
baritone on it? No. I guess not. They wouldn't put
that on unless it's stereo. About the five
position baritone. It's on the old... 345 and 355s
usually had them. Very nice.
You know, the Lucille-type BBK. The only thing
wrong with Gibsons now is you have to play about 100
of them to find one that's playable. What I would
do, I would just buy one, find one that's playable,
and then take it off to a good neck person. Dan
Armstrong, I would say Lou and I are probably among
his absolute first customers, among the first
five. He was a musician who decided that he wanted
to do some guitar repair. And a very funny thing
happened. One day in his store in West Broadway, he
opened up a new location. He was in there. He had my
335 stereo in there.
And this German guy who developed the pickups that
he uses in the Dan Armstrong, you know, the
plexiglass drums, these big... So he's playing
something. He says, How do you like that, huh? Just
blasts your ass off, doesn't it? I said, oh, come
on. I think the old P-35 can match that. Stereo, you
get 35% more gain anyway. I think I still like the
sound of this. But I will say that I used Dan
Armstrong in the studio a few times. I used it on the
Loaded album. On New Age, I definitely used it. And
I think I'll cool it down. I don't
know if it was using Sweet Jane or not. I'm trying to
think. I can't remember what the hell it was
playing. It got a real kind of clinical sound to it.
Of course, way too much. It looked neat. I should
have suspected you guys were going to talk about
this. Are you playing in dance? Same
problem that you had. You can't find anybody to
want to hear the music you like to play. Yeah. Yeah,
so anyway, that was the original question. So we
had given up. We said, well, who said you have to
play in public anyhow? So Lou John and I decided
practicing by ourselves and playing songs for our
own amusement. There was Smokey Robinson songs
and sort of taught John some rock and roll stuff.
And then we started evolving these weird things of
our own. It didn't matter, because you had no hope
of going out to play them. So, why not? I'm
just trying to figure out my own clock. We were
under no constraints. Quick, you have to write all
this original material so you can go out and play
it. We knew we weren't going to go out and play it. We
just very calmly would play three, four, five
nights a week anyway. And had a great time. No
pressure, no anything, and no money. In the winter
in New York, in John's unheated apartment,
sometimes we had rugs on our shoulders as we
played. Is this suffering? No, because we just
felt like playing music. And if it gets too cold,
you can always Take some pills or something. You
won't feel it. So we did that and then kind of got
lured out into, somebody said, why don't you come
back up some movies, you know, underground
cinema. So we said, oh sure, why not. You mean we
actually get to play anything we want? He said,
yeah, you can do anything you want. And you're just
the music back there. So we said, oh, terrific. So
we started playing this stuff. Then we made a tape,
and it just all sort of happened by accident.
It's probably the way it ought to happen. To
succeed in music, the element of luck is
extraordinary.
When you're on the road, you can't go into a town
without finding musicians there who can play
anything better than anybody you ever heard. To
these people, all you can say is get yourself a band
and
try to write some material and then try and get
lucky.
Just go with the flow, whatever it is.
My favorite gigs are The earliest ones.